docs: add per-message feedback proposal (#9722)
Kilo-Org/kilocode: packages/kilo-docs/pages/contributing/architecture/per-message-feedback.md

---
title: "Per-Message Feedback"
description: "Thumbs up/down feedback on assistant messages sent to Kilo via telemetry"
---

# Per-Message Feedback (Thumbs Up / Down)

## Problem

We have no signal on which assistant responses are helpful and which aren't. Without per-response feedback, we can't:

- Correlate model or prompt changes to user-perceived quality
- Identify specific bad responses in the Kilo Gateway logs for investigation
- Detect patterns where certain providers, models, or prompt paths consistently underperform

Aggregate metrics like session completion rate or token cost are too coarse to understand individual response quality. A lightweight thumbs-up/down on each message can help close the feedback loop.

## Proposal

Add a thumbs-up / thumbs-down widget next to the existing copy button on every assistant message. Ratings are sent to Kilo via the existing PostHog telemetry pipeline. The UI is hidden entirely when telemetry is disabled.

### Scope

| Surface | Approach |
|---|---|
| VS Code extension | Thumbs buttons inline next to the copy button |
| TUI | Keybinds (`<leader>+` / `<leader>-`) on the last assistant message |

### Telemetry Payload

> We deliberately collect fewer identifiers for non-Kilo providers, since those IDs can't be correlated to upstream data and add tracking surface without product benefit.

Author: ```suggestion
We deliberately collect fewer identifiers for non-Kilo providers, since those IDs can't be correlated to upstream data and add tracking surface without product benefit. Users of non-Kilo GW models would also not expect or want us to collect that information in Kilo GW from other providers.
```

---
title: "Per-Message Feedback"
description: "Thumbs up/down feedback on assistant messages sent to Kilo via telemetry"
---

# Per-Message Feedback (Thumbs Up / Down)

## Problem

We have no signal on which assistant responses are helpful and which aren't. Without per-response feedback, we can't:

- Correlate model or prompt changes to user-perceived quality
- Identify specific bad responses in the Kilo Gateway logs for investigation
- Detect patterns where certain providers, models, or prompt paths consistently underperform

> Aggregate metrics like session completion rate or token cost are too coarse to understand individual response quality. A lightweight thumbs-up/down on each message gives us the missing feedback loop.

Author: ```suggestion
Aggregate metrics like session completion rate or token cost are too coarse to understand individual response quality. A lightweight thumbs-up/down on each message can help close the feedback loop.
```

## Proposal

Add a thumbs-up / thumbs-down widget next to the existing copy button on every assistant message. Ratings are sent to Kilo via the existing PostHog telemetry pipeline. The UI is hidden entirely when telemetry is disabled.

### Scope

| Surface | Approach |
|---|---|
| VS Code extension | Thumbs buttons inline next to the copy button |
| TUI | Keybinds (`<leader>+` / `<leader>-`) on the last assistant message |

> | Desktop / `kilo web` | Out of scope for the first pass |

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Telemetry Payload

We deliberately collect fewer identifiers for non-Kilo providers, since those IDs can't be correlated to upstream data and add tracking surface without product benefit.

> **Direct providers (Anthropic, OpenAI, etc.):**

Author: ```suggestion
**Third party providers (Anthropic, OpenAI, local, etc.):**
```

`providerID`, `modelID`, `variant?`, `rating`, `previousRating?`

**Kilo Gateway turns (`providerID` starts with `"kilo"`):**
Same fields plus `sessionID`, `messageID`, and `parentMessageID` (= the `x-kilo-request` header the gateway already saw). This lets backend analysts join feedback against gateway logs to diagnose specific bad responses.

Event name: `"Feedback Submitted"` — a single event string in both telemetry enum registries so PostHog sees one event regardless of source.

### UX

- **Toggleable**: click the same button again to clear, or click the opposite to switch. Each change fires a new event with `rating` and `previousRating`.
- **In-memory state**: ratings are keyed by message ID and held in the webview/TUI session. Persisting across reloads is deferred to a follow-up.

> - **Gated on telemetry**: if the user has VS Code telemetry disabled, the buttons don't render at all. The TUI keybinds are no-ops with a brief toast.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Gated on telemetry**: if the user has VS Code telemetry disabled, the buttons don't render at all. For the CLI when telemetry is off, the keybinds are no-ops.
```
